Promoting and developing the Cornish language
The next Cornish Language Forum is on Saturday 7 November
You can find details here
June 2018 is now available for download!
Time for Kan Rag Kernow 2018 – this year in Lowenac Hotel, Camborne on Friday 19th January! Five bands in competition plus a set from award-winning Macquarrie and Toms!  Book your tickets here
The date of the next forum is Saturday 11 November in Trelawny, County Hall, Truro from 10am. Papers are available from
See you for some whisky, singing and dancing in Cornish this weekend at Lowender Peran!
Here's a Radio 4 programme about small languages and Rory McGrath singing in Cornish at the SUNS festival.
Here is Scott Mann MP saying his Oath in Cornish in Parliament last week. Sarah Newton MP said her Oath in Cornish as well.
Why not make a short film for speak Cornish Week? Here’s what people did in previous years
UPDATE: The new date of this next forum meeting is Saturday 3 June in Trelawny, County Hall, Truro from 10:00–13:00. Papers to follow shortly.
Cornwall Council has announced two new tender opportunities on Supplying the South West for work to support national minority status for the Cornish - follow this link for more details
Agan Tavas has organised a talk from John Rowe, from Camborne and Working at Plymouth University, with the title 'Cornish Political Cartoons'. Part will be in Cornish and part in English. It will be held on Saturday 1st April starting 7.00pm. Light refreshments will be provided and entry is by donation.
Please let Ray Chubb know if you are planning to attend by emailing ray@spyrys.org.
Congratulations to the @thegrenaways on Friday - winners of Kan Rag Kernow 2017!
Come to Kan Rag Kernow 2017 this Friday – a fantastic night of new music – 8.00pm, Penventon Park Hotel, Redruth.  For further details
Please fill in the Radyo an Gernewegva survey.   This is your chance to say what you like, or what you don’t like about the programme, and we can find out more about who listens to the programme.
The 2016 Skians conference for Cornish language research will be on 30 September and 1 October at the Tremough Campus, Penryn – book your tickets on the Eventbrite website
The next language forum meeting will take place on Saturday 15th October 2016 in 2N:03, New County Hall, Truro from 10am
Papers are available from
Please book your place on
Radyo an Gernewegva is looking for your views on its service – please fill in their questionnaire!
Listen to the new song by The Changing Room – 325,000 have watched the video already!
An interesting article in The Guardian this week about small languages and how they can support businesses.
Come to the TOSTA concert this Friday in Falmouth
Visit the TOSTA festival village on the Prince of Wales Pier Falmouth starting on Friday!
There will also be short films in Cornish about mining in the Trailblazer bus nearby
Come and make a short film with Miracle Theatre or discuss art with Tate St.Ives
We will be at the Royal Cornwall show – come and visit us in the culture and heritage area!
Well done  Café Polyglot Penzance  a great Thursday evening of language learning. Thank you for inviting us to 'share the Cornish'
Have you booked your Kan rag Kernow ticket yet? 8pm, Friday 29th January at the Penventon Hotel, Redruth.
Michael Portillo met with Cornish speakers on Great British Railway Journeys (Series 7 Episode 10). Missed it? Catch up on iPlayer.
Yes its Tregedna time again, 19th, 20th & 21st of February BOOK NOW! (contact Sam at the MAGA office)
Kan rag Kernow 2016, Penventon Hotel, Redruth, 29 January 8pm. Get your tickets now. Five bands competing to represent Cornwall in Ireland and music from MacQuarrie and Toms as well!
And in Cornwall?
If you wish to support Gaelic speakers
If you would like to hear a song in Cornish, tune in to Tadio 2 Folk Show tonight, where Sam Kelly from Looe, and a member of The Changing Room, will be singing Gwrell Glaw, trranslated by Ken George, as part of his set. Congratulations Sam - bringing Cornish to a wide audience!
Cornwall Council Cabinet adopted a Cornish Language plan for the Council this morning!
It's time once again for Kan rag Kernow. If you have a song to enter, the deadline is mid December. And remember - we can help with translation. For further information, see
Important news! Cornwall Council is seeking a Cornish Language Lead officer. Please forward this link to anyone who may be interested.
Translation courtesy the translation service - excellent to see it actually on the train!
Well said, Kernow King!
Have you got ideas for new projects? Take a look at this!
News from the first Forum last Saturday about future structures for the language and a new project fund open for applications. 
 Don't forget - A new anthem in Cornish will be sung at the next Eucharist in Cornish at Truro Cathedral on Wednesday 30th September at 5.30pm. The Solemn Eucharist for the Feast of St German will be sung by the Cathedral Choir in Cornish and Latin, and in it will be the first performance of a new anthem  written by composer, Paul Comeau, with words in Cornish by Bardh Gwerin. Come and listen to this Cornish language world premiere!
If you would like to go to the Cornish languaeg service at Treslothan, there is a new date for it. Instead of 27th September, it will now take place on 4th October at 3pm. See you there!
Keur heb Hanow would like your help to make their first CD. Please follow the link to make a pledge.
It's September - time to start learning Cornish. Lots of classes are re-starting this week. Look ak www.learncornishnow.com to see which is the best one for you!
Are you going to the Gorsedh tomorrow? Come and see us on the Maga stall!
The worlds best selling language learning software relaunches in Cornish. 
On this day in 1595 a Spanish raid took place on Mousehole, Paul, Newlyn and Penzance, killing Jenkyn Keigwin. He was the grandfather of John Keigwin who produced works in Cornish
There will be a church service in Cornish at Breage Parish Church. A service for the Feast of St James will be on 26 July at 3pm. Everyone welcome!
Test your knowledge at Krowji tonight! 
Melting Pot, Krowji, Redruth will host a very interesting kwiz on Monday 20th July 7.30pm.
An interesting new exhibition opens today at Tintagel Castle which includes Cornish. The Welcome Centre has bilingual signage as well. Maga was very glad to help English Heritage with this project. Congratulations to them
We have collected this year’s #speakcornish week films here. If we have missed any, email a link to cornishlanguage@cornwall.gov.uk
Tonight the Taves an Tir project are holding a social evening in Redruth to talk about placenames.
Where is your favourite place?
Today now
What is your favourite sport?
Take a moment to visit our partners who support #speakcornish week. Click on their logos at the bottom of this page.
Today our education officers are working at Whitstone Community Primary School
What do you like to drink?
I like my pheasant
I like rambling
One of our education officers is helping at the Kaos session today.
Listen to Radio Cornwall this afternoon at 4.15pm to hear 'Little Waves Storytelling' speak Cornish for Speak Cornish Week!
Have you thought about using Cornish in your wedding? 
What are your favourite hobbies?
I like the spring weather in Cornwall!
I like the taste of a Cornish pasty
I like to eat Cornish Mussels
What do you like to eat?
'I like a car!' said Seb.
I like sausages
I like the music of Steely Dan
Today our education officers are working at Saltash School
Today in 1643, Sir Bevil Grenville was killed at the battle of Lansdowne
Welcome to #speakcornish week!
Tell us what do you like! Make a photo, picture or film using “Da yw genev”
Come and see us at Bodmin Riding & Heritage Day 
The Cornish Store have mounted a wonderful #speakcornish week display!
Tomorrow in Troon
We are at the Made in Cornwall business event this evening
Check out our #speakcornish week events page
See our press release for #speakcornish week here 
On the 27th June 1497, Michael Joseph (An Gof) and Thomas Flamanck were executed. Commemorations will take place tomorrow in St Keverne and Bodmin
Today MAGA education officers are working with schools as part of St Austell Feast Week
Today is midsummer in #Kernow! The Old Cornwall Societies have a list of bonfires here, scroll down to What’s On
Whether it is St Austell Feast Week  or just hanging around, encourage people to use “Dydh da!”
What are you doing in #Cornwall this weekend? 
Getting married? Going to a wedding? Some useful phrases in Cornish are here. 
On this day in 1497, the #Cornish army of 10,000 lost the battle of Deptford Bridge against a force of 25,000.
On this day in AD1497, the #Cornish won the battle of Gill Down, near Guildford, against the English forces of King Henry VII, causing panic on the streets of London.
The MAGA translation service is free for up to 40 words, and we are always grateful to receive examples of the results in film, photographs, publications or products 
Britain’s favourite birds, No 3 is a blackbird, No 2 is a barn owl but No 1 is a robin.
A day without mutation is a day without a Celtic language.
You can get good examples of #Cornish from the MAGA website, please let us know how you get on! 
A #Cornish blessing at St Nicholas Chapel, St Ives was delivered by Mick Paynter and took place yesterday as part of St Ives Council’s wedding fair.
Cornish language speakers today are young! 
#Cornwall 196 years ago today, Prof. J.C. Adams was born at Laneast near Launceston 
Want some #Cornish over the next three days? Come and see us in the Cornwall Council pavilion at Royal Cornwall Show! 
Thank you to everyone who came to the MAGA conference at the weekend 
Beards are the new abs 
#Cornish language is the star again – a symphony with Cornish language singing is to be the finale at a top London Music Festival thank you Jamie Brown.
Today is the anniversary of the birth of Bob Fitzsimmons in Helston 
Scott Mann speaking
Tune in to BBC Radio 3 tonight at 11pm to hear some singing in Cornish
Follow this link to book your place on the MAGA conference, taking place on the 30th May at Lys Kernow. We will be covering the last ten years of the Cornish Language Strategy, and looking ahead as well.
Cornish as a community language!
Who is MP in your part of Cornwall? Election results here:
Do not love mutation let mutation love you
What are you doing in Cornwall this weekend? 
#Cornwall Festivals leaflet, spot the #Cornish! 
What is the weather like in your part of #Cornwall?
The anniversary of #Cornish minority status recognition is today. Happy anniversary! 
MAGA is adding its congratulations to Cornish band The Changing Room who have swept the board at the Pan Celtic Festival in Ireland, winning three major prizes for #Cornwall including the Celtavision competition, with their song “Hal an Tow”.
Have you received your Maga newsletter? If you haven’t, you can sign up here to receive it
Enjoy the Celtic Media Festival, which starts tomorrow!
The SW Shinty League final takes place on Sunday at 5pm in Halvasso (centre), with a BBQ afterwards. Mabe v Mylor  is the final showdown; both teams have been unbeaten all season. The Champions, Mabe just need a draw to win the Championship while the new Mylor team need to give it all! MAGA has provided some translations to the league and we look forward to seeing the golden stick! 
Please find attached a poster for a Eucharist in #Cornish that will be celebrated at Truro Cathedral on Tuesday 28th April at 1pm, on the feast of Winwalloe.
Please sign up to receive our free bilingual newsletter! You can read about what is happening in Cornish language and culture in #Cornish and English. 
Did you enjoy #worldpoetryday ? No Heart Without Language posted several works by Celtic authors, this was one in #Kernewek
A great idea and a lovely way to remember somewhere very important in the history of our language.
What Cornish song makes you feel happy? Post it online tomorrow (20th) with the tag #HappySoundsLike for the international day of happiness! 
We have updated our website’s learning & teaching section, check it out here
lesson 10 available now! 
We are sad to hear that Prof. Joshua Fishman has died. Renowned for his important work with languages and socio-linguistics, he came to Cornwall in 2008, despite his advancing  years and ill health, to help us look at the process for reaching the SWF. he is a great loss to the world of languages.
There is more Cornish seen in our community
Would you like some Honey with that?
There is a lot going on for Pirantide and it starts tomorrow! See our calendar for details of Pirantide events running all over the world: 
Tregedna is an intensive course where people stay together, cook, eat and have fun. A variety of Cornish speakers have been asked to lead activities that are fun and designed to improve your Cornish without you noticing. It is aimed at those who have been studying Cornish for while – somewhere around 3rd – 4th grade – and who want to practise and improve their conversation in a relaxed atmosphere.
For everyone going to Tregedna tomorrow, have a great weekend!
Good to see more and more #Cornish used!
The February newsletter is available here. If you have not received it, you can sign up on our website to get it delivered straight to your inbox! 
Grand Bard Maureen Fuller will give a reading in Cornish at the St Pirans Oratory tomorrow which will be filmed by BBC Songs of Praise.
Looe based band The Changing Room won Kan Rag Kernow on the 30th January, and will represent Cornwall at the international Pan Celtic festival in Ireland in April.
Idioms of the world!
A Breton Bagad has won 'France Has Got Talent', come and see Cornish Talent at the Penventon tomorrow! 
Just two days left until the Kan Rag Kernow competition takes place at the Penventon hotel! The facebook event page is here:
Check out this article from guest contributor Paul Mains: 5Tell-Tale Signs That You Speak a Foreign Language Fluently.
What do you think?
Our fifth contestants are duo Mike O’Connor and Barbara Griggs
Our third contestant is Goslowes
Our second contestants are duo Jo Tagney and Liz Davies
Our first applicant is the Changing Room
Have you bought your tickets?
How to learn #Cornish
Gwra dyski Kernewek rag dha ervirans bledhen nowydh!
5 ways to make time for language learning
Visit the most popular pages on the MAGA website for lots of useful words and phrases
The User survey has been extended so if you have not filled it in then do it now! 
You can still get a MAGA Christmas resource pack here
There are just a few days left now to fill in this survey. If you use any Cornish, from just a few words up to and including full fluency please follow this link. 
There are two weeks left to apply for the Song for Cornwall, contact us if you need any help! 
Does one of these myths hold you back? 
Love mince pies? Here's something to tempt you
Have you taken the survey? Maga would like to reach all of the users of Cornish that we can, so please forward this link to everyone you can think of who knows a little Cornish. 
If you know any Cornish, please complete this survey. It is important that we survey Cornish users each year to find out what progress is being made. Thnak you!
Enjoy Bonfire night, but bear these tips in mind! 
For everyone going to Tregedna V (East) tomorrow, have an enjoyable weekend!
The CAVA conference is on at Tremough today and tomorrow. Are you going to the Cornish Language Research Network Conference which starts on Monday? 
The programme and booking form for the research conference on October 17/28 can be found on the Maga website
Good to hear about the new Yeth an Werin in Cardiff!
Happy international Translation day!
Congratulations!
Who is to blame? Perhaps it was leaves on the rails?!
Tomorrow is European Day of Languages! To mark the event, you are invited to submit photos to an online photo competition running from now until the 14th November. Let us know about your entry so that we can encourage people to vote for your photo! For full terms and conditions, including how to apply, follow this link. 
like and share 
Latest news
We took some photos of the place-name seminar 
We have set up our exhibition in Lys Kernow for European Day of Languages!
See this!  
Congratulations to everyone who succeeded in the exams this year!
Kylgh members visited Bosue Vineyard for a tour of the vines and a talk about the process in the winery and, of course, a tasting session.
An interesting seminar about the Economic Value of Culture, which includes input from Maga on the Cornish language.
What are you doing this month?
Try a whistlestop tour of the language by Mick Paynter
Fancy a pub quiz next Tuesday?
There is a lot of interest in #Cornish culture abroad!
Cornish music, dance, language & cultural stands, games & much more!
Don't forget tomorrow's language fair as part of #speakcornish week! 
Na ankevewgh Fer an Yeth avorow avel rann seythen #speakcornish!
Don't forget tomorrow's #GogMagog afternoon and performance as part of #speakcornish week!
Today's #10sFylm phrase is "A allav vy dha weres?”" which means "Can I help you?" post your selfie with the tags #10sFylm and #speakcornish . Please like and share, and encourage your friends to do the same!
An evening of fun and games in Cornish for beginners and experienced alike, at the Wig and Pen, Truro. These Yeth an Werins are held twice a mis, join the facebook group
Don't forget tonight's Fish and Chip Dinner as part of #speakcornish week! 